Table Commands documentation added (#159)
rizinorg/book: src/tools/rz-bin/tables.md

> # Table API

Reviewer: I would call this as Table Output and Queries

Rizin generates tables for certain commands, such as `aflt`, `is`, `izz`, and `il`, when they are executed on a file. These commands return structured data in the form of tables.

> The Table API is used to process and display this data. Using table specifiers, users can sort rows, filter (grep) data, select specific columns or rows, paginate results, and limit the output. Tables can also be printed in different output formats such as CSV and JSON, or displayed in various textual layouts, including with borders and headers, with headers only, or without headers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The table output is used to process and display data. Using the table query syntax, users can sort rows, filter (grep) data, select specific columns or rows, paginate results, and limit the output. Tables can also be printed in different output formats such as CSV and JSON, or displayed in various textual layouts, including with borders and headers, with headers only, or without headers.
```

## Table Command Syntax

> In Rizin, the help command for table-based commands is `:?`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Rizin, the help command for the table query syntax is `:?`.
```

```text
Usage:
<command>[:<table_spec>[:<table_spec>...]][:<output_spec>]
```
Note: Table specifiers are applied from left to right. Output format specifiers must be specified at the end.  

Table format specifiers `(<table_spec>)`:
```

> | <col>/sort/<inc|dec>      # Sort table by column <col> in increasing or decreasing order.

Reviewer: this is wrong. i probably forgot to change this as the sorting can be reversed by doing `<col>/sort/rev`

> | <col>/sortlen/<inc|dec>   # Sort table length of column <col> in increasing or decreasing order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| <col>/sortlen/rev   # Sort table length of column <col> in increasing or decreasing order.
```

Reviewer: same here. i forgot to update the info.

| */page/<n_page>/<page_size> # Show <page_size> rows starting from the page number <n_page>.
| */head/<n_rows>           # Show the first <n_rows> rows.
| */tail/<n_rows>           # Show the last <n_rows> rows.
| <col>/str/<value>         # Grep rows where string <value> is a substring of column <col>.
| <col>/strlen/<value>      # Grep rows where the length of column <col> is <value>.
| <col>/minlen/<value>      # Grep rows where the length of column <col> is greater than <value>.
| <col>/maxlen/<value>      # Grep rows where the length of column <col> is less than <value>.
| <col>/sum/<value>         # Sum all the values of column <col>.
```

Output format specifiers `(<output_spec>)`:
```
| csv    # Print the table in CSV format.
| json   # Print the table in JSON format.
| fancy  # Print the table in a nice form with borders and headers.
| simple # Print the table in a simple form, only with headers.
| quiet  # Print the table in a simple form, without headers.
```
Some examples which give a general overview of how to use.

---

### Example 1: Filter, sort, and format analyzed functions

```text

> aflt:addr/cols/name/nbbs:size/gt/32:nbbs/gt/1:nbbs/lt/10:nbbs/sort/dec:fancy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
aflt:addr/cols/name/nbbs:size/gt/32:nbbs/gt/1:nbbs/lt/10:nbbs/sort/rev:fancy
```

| */head/<n_rows>           # Show the first <n_rows> rows.
| */tail/<n_rows>           # Show the last <n_rows> rows.
| <col>/str/<value>         # Grep rows where string <value> is a substring of column <col>.
| <col>/strlen/<value>      # Grep rows where the length of column <col> is <value>.
| <col>/minlen/<value>      # Grep rows where the length of column <col> is greater than <value>.
| <col>/maxlen/<value>      # Grep rows where the length of column <col> is less than <value>.
| <col>/sum/<value>         # Sum all the values of column <col>.
```
Note: The `/sort` and `/sortlen` commands sort values in increasing order by default. Adding `/rev` reverses the order of the output.

Example:

`aflt:nbbs/sort` sorts the results in increasing order of `nbbs` values.

`aflt:nbbs/sort/rev` sorts the results in decreasing order of `nbbs` values.

Output format specifiers `(<output_spec>)`:
```
| csv    # Print the table in CSV format.
| json   # Print the table in JSON format.
| fancy  # Print the table in a nice form with borders and headers.
| simple # Print the table in a simple form, only with headers.
| quiet  # Print the table in a simple form, without headers.
```

> Some examples which give a general overview of how to use.

Reviewer 2: Move this sentence below the line

---

### Example 1: Filter, sort, and format analyzed functions

```
aflt:addr/cols/name/nbbs:size/gt/32:nbbs/gt/1:nbbs/lt/10:nbbs/sort/rev:fancy
```
This command selects the `addr`, `name`, and `nbbs` columns. It filters functions whose size is greater than 32 bytes and keeps only those functions whose number of basic blocks (`nbbs`) is greater than 1 and less than 10. The results are displayed in reverse order of nbbs using the fancy table format.

### Example 2: Paginate strings, filter by length, and export as CSV
```

> izz:string/minlen/8:length/sort/rev:*/page/0/15:csv

Reviewer 2: @notxvilka @wargio This command throws errors for me:

```
[0x000037f0]> izz:string/minlen/8:length/sort/rev:*/page/0/15:csv
rz_num_calc error: ( ')' expected) in ((i9<iv}2)
rz_num_calc error: ( ')' expected) in ((iG<iTZÞ6)
rz_num_calc error: ( ')' expected) in ((º<iTZD4)
rz_num_calc error: ( ')' expected) in ((iG<iTZî3)
rz_num_calc error: ( ')' expected) in ((iG<iTZ)
rz_num_calc error: ( ')' expected) in ((iF<inY³)
paddr,vaddr,len,size,section,type,string
0x00022f43,----------,14,15,.shstrtab,ascii,.gnu_debugdata
0x00022f34,----------,14,15,.shstrtab,ascii,.gnu_debuglink
...

```

Reviewer: i had the same error. seems that the buffer is not initialized or going out of bound.

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/rizinorg/rizin/issues/5993

```
This command filters strings whose length is greater than 8 characters and sorts them by length in reverse order. It then paginates the output to show only the first page containing 15 rows and prints the result in CSV format.

### Example 3: Combine uniqueness, filtering, and JSON output for symbols
```

> is:name/uniq:addr/gt/0x1000:name/str/init:addr/sort:json

Reviewer 2: This command doesn't work for me. Might be a bug.

Reviewer 2: The `addr/gt/0x100` part removes all entries.

| <col>/maxlen/<value>      # Grep rows where the length of column <col> is less than <value>.
| <col>/sum/<value>         # Sum all the values of column <col>.
```
Note: The `/sort` and `/sortlen` commands sort values in increasing order by default. Adding `/rev` reverses the order of the output.

Example:

`aflt:nbbs/sort` sorts the results in increasing order of `nbbs` values.

`aflt:nbbs/sort/rev` sorts the results in decreasing order of `nbbs` values.

Output format specifiers `(<output_spec>)`:
```
| csv    # Print the table in CSV format.
| json   # Print the table in JSON format.
| fancy  # Print the table in a nice form with borders and headers.
| simple # Print the table in a simple form, only with headers.
| quiet  # Print the table in a simple form, without headers.
```

Note: Address-based table filters operate on the address type exposed by the table column. Columns such as `addr` and `vaddr` refer to virtual addresses, while `paddr` refers to physical addresses (file offsets).

Some examples which give a general overview of how to use.

---

### Example 1: Filter, sort, and format analyzed functions

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
---

### Example 1: Filter, sort, and format analyzed functions

Some examples which give a general overview of how to use.

```
```

> Note: Address-based table filters operate on the address type exposed by the table column. Columns such as `addr` and `vaddr` refer to virtual addresses, while `paddr` refers to physical addresses (file offsets). The table query engine does not perform address translation, therefore table filtering depends on the address type of the selected column.

Reviewer 2: ```
 The table query engine does not perform address translation, therefore table filtering depends on the address type of the selected column.
```

What do you mean with this sentence?

Also, when I was talking about the addresses, I was talking about the example below. Here it doesn't make sense.

is:name/uniq:addr/gt/0x1000:name/str/init:addr/sort:json
```
This command keeps only the first occurrence of each unique symbol name. It filters symbols whose address is greater than `0x1000` and whose name contains the substring `init`. The results are sorted in increasing order.

> We are using `addr` for filtering, which means that the filtering is performed on virtual addresses.

Reviewer 2: So I found some time and looked into it and figured what is the problem.

`is` doesn't have the `addr` column but only `vaddr` and `paddr`. `uniq:addr` simply prints all of the rows (because `addr` doesn't exist I guess?).

But it prints an error:
```
> is:name/uniq:addr/
ERROR: table: Invalid operation ()
```

This is also why my brief test by running the commands didn't work. because `gt/addr` couldn't compare to anything. Which was also shown in an error I missed:

In any case, did you run the commands by yourself and tested it?
Or did you just generated the text here with AI?

Author: Yes i used AI. But i crosschecked it too. If addr is not a table then how come this command work?
`is:name/uniq:addr/lt/0x1000:name/str/init:addr/sort:json` just lt instead of gt. 
<img width="1460" height="143" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7fb0f026-bb1c-4d47-b4d4-7cc6f5413505" />
I forgot that there is no addr column. So i just verified with `lt` and it was working so i wrote it here.
I can change it to `vaddr` to correct my mistake.

Reviewer 2: > But i crosschecked it too.

Then it is fine.

> I forgot that there is no addr column. So i just verified with lt and it was working so i wrote it here.

That is weird and a bug I think. The filtering should work consistently. Either fail or follow some how it matches.

> I can change it to vaddr to correct my mistake.

Yes please. You can also remove the comments about `paddr` and `vaddr` then. Since they are no longer relevant.

Author: ok thank you.

Author: Done please check.
